welcome to Billings Clinic Family Birth
Center located on the Billings Clinic
campus at the corner of North 27th
Street and 10th Avenue North in Billings
Montana enter the west side of the
building by the pediatric center and
take the elevator or stairs to the
second floor
mother and baby together supported by
family and friends the Family Birth
Center has been designed around this
philosophy our physicians nurses and
staff provide care and a comfortable
nurturing environment that provides the
highest quality medical care the Family
Birth Center opened in October 1999 as
the first birth center in Montana to
offer single room maternity care and
private family birth suites we are
honored to welcome nearly 1,400 babies
into the world each year this video tour
will lead you through our Family Birth
Center facilities
caring Family Birth Center nurses and
staff will greet you and provide the
best support possible to you and your
family before and after your baby's
birth the Family Birth Center features
14 private birth suites plus two
observation rooms the Ann leak T
Milliken suite is also available for
families adopting a newborn or whose
baby will be discharged soon from the
neonatal intensive care unit we may need
to utilize additional rooms on the 4th
floor of the hospital the observation
rooms called triage rooms are used to
determine if an expecting woman is in
labor our bright and spacious suites
have scenic window views mothers have
the comfort of knowing that they will be
in their own private
during labor birth and recovery each
family stays in the same room for their
entire stay the suites include design
elements that mothers told us they
desire most such as soft colors
furniture and artwork that emphasize
home-like comfort families also enjoy
having storage areas a television and
stereo we provide a gift bag with
supplies for mom and a fully furnished
bassinet with supplies for baby medical
support equipment is tucked away in
beautiful oak cabinetry the private
bathroom is roomy and includes a jacuzzi
bathtub rooms have a special sink where
your nurse will give your baby his or
her first bath and show you how to bathe
your baby the sofa converts to a bed for
overnight stays by the mother's birth
partner you and your family can order
meals directly from our convenient room
service menu nursing and support staff
are available 24 hours a day to answer
questions and offer advice if requested
two surgical suites are immediately
accessible in the Family Birth Center
for patients who require a cesarean
birth or other birth related surgery a
state-of-the-art
neonatal intensive care unit NICU
provides care for infants in need of
comprehensive care and monitoring as
well as intensive medical attention our
expert neonatologist and pediatricians
supported by highly qualified staff will
tend to the needs of these tiny newborns
around-the-clock NICU nurses give
special attention to developmental care
such as lighting and day/night cycles
which help babies to grow and thrive
our lactation consultants guide new moms
with free breastfeeding support during
and after their stay
pediatricians and pediatric specialists
offer 24-hour pediatric support to the
family birth center the Billings Clinic
pediatric center is conveniently located
on the first floor of the Family Birth
Center the safety and security of babies
in our care is one of our highest
priorities we have a highly advanced
security system security patrols and
hospital staff training to protect each
infant a variety of classes from
pregnancy care to infant massage are
offered by Billings Clinic class
schedules are available online or from
your doctor's office at Billings Clinic
family birth center our goal is to
provide a birth experience that is
centered around what women and their
physicians and nurses decide together
encouraged by family support and
participation Billings Clinic family
birth center starting life together if
you need a physician or you have health
questions call the registered nurses at
health line at 2:55 8400 or 1-800 to
five two one two four six or visit our
website at Billings Clinic calm